GPS location data is an example of data being represented by numbers.
Locations like Cebu City or Gorordo Avenue, Lahug are always thought of by it's name.
But computers don't understand names like humans do.
Instead, locations are set as numbers called latitude and longitude.
Latitude is how far north or south you are from the equator, while longitude measures how far east or west you are from the prime meridian.
Similar to a cartesian plane where the latitude is the y-coordinate and the longitude is the x-coordiante.
An example of this is Cebu City being represented in this format.
Where its latitude is 10.3157 degrees and its longitude is 123.8854 degrees.
At first glance, they seem like regular decimal numbers, but in actuality they're very precise.
Even a reeeaaally slight change in the decimals could shift your location by several meters on the map.
That precision is why floating numbers are used to store GPS data inside computers.
When your phone or some sort of location tracking device determines your location, it doesn't just magically know where you are in the whole world.
It receives signals from multiple different satellites orbiting the Earth.
Each satellite sending timing information that your device uses to calculate how far away it is.
By combining signals collected from at least four different satellites, your device can figure out your exact position on Earth as a pair of latitude and longitude numbers.
But sometimes the accuracy of these devices could be affected by satellite obstructions, low power mode, software issues, physical interfernece, and atmospheric conditions.
Even then, once those numbers are calculated, your device stores them in binary form.
From there, softwares like Google Maps or Apple Maps, if you're feeling fancy, takes those numbers and uses them in different ways.
Like displaying your location on the map, calculating the distance between where you want to go, and to give you directions by comparing your live coordinates with stored map data.
What looks like a very simple map on your screen is actually the result of a lot of number crunching happening behind the scenes.
The movement on the screen isn't actually you moving, but rather the coordinates calculated being constantly updated over and over in real time.
Hi sir if you read this at 80 words per minute it would be a 5 minute read.
Thank you sir and have a great day!
