As a child I was interested in different hobbies, jumping from one after another; I was not able to stay in one interest because my mind wanders and desires varying knowledge.
I would randomly start wanting to cook, to play soccer, volleyball, basketball, or any random activity.
If you were to ask my younger self about what I wanted to become, I would have answered you that I wanted to be a math teacher or a chef.
But life had its own plans.
I got accepted in a STEM-only high school, meaning I would not be able to pursue my dreams of becoming a full-time chef.
I truly thought I would pursue mathematics by then, but I the twists and turns of fate took play.
I really was not that passionate about coding, I even failed my first Computer Science class in 7th grade.
But pandemic came, I started to spend more time on a laptop and started to actually want to do my Computer Science modules.
I would watch the 'Alvin and the Chipmunks' quadrilogy while coding and I actually had fun.
But why did I truly choose Computer Science?
Usually I would look back at the time when I defended the course against some of my lower year subordinates because they truly believed that CS was a dead course and would leave everyone that takes it unemployed.
I still believe it was a foreshadowing of where I am now.
But the reason as to how I am here now is very different.
I was just simply too lazy.
Too lazy to apply to another school and too lazy to apply for other scholarships.
When I got the UP acceptance e-mail, my mind went "Oh I thought I failed, I guess I don't really need to apply to another school anyways since I got accepted in UP so I won't burden my parents with paying for my tuition."
Therefore, I simply stopped and relaxed.
I didn't really care about my other college applications and just accepted the fact that I was going to UP Cebu.
But why didn't I appeal to change my course to BS Math?
Simply because I was once again, too lazy.
Our school actually helped us learn different languages including python, html, c++, and even maxima.
But I wasn't really interested in any of them.
Until I found out that some of my sisters batchmates that were CS graduates took a data analysis job, I was inspired.
I became truly interested in the data science aspect of computer science.
When the seniors in UPCSG offered free access to Datacamp I was overjoyed.
But obviously, in the end, I got lazy and it is now gathering dust.
Good day sir, if you read this at 95.4 words per minute it would be a 5 minute read, personally fun raman sad siya basahon sir.
